Annotated Bibliography
======================

The book "React.js Essentials" [#f1]_ is where is started my research. This
book covers the basics of implementing and using React.js. I could pull from
this the general uses of React as a way to create user interfaces, its
dependencies, and how to make your page react to user and server changes.

.. [#f1] Fedosejev, A., & Bush, A. (2015). React.js Essentials.
    Packt Publishing.

This article, "React: Facebook's Functional Turn on Writing JavaScript"
[#f2]_ follows a discussion on why React was needed and created at Facebook. I
found React was created to make the interaction between JavaScript and changing
data sets more understandable for programmers. This works by obscuring the DOM
(Document Object Model) and allowing changes in data to be handled quickly and
in a way engineers can understand.

.. [#f2] Hunt, P., O’Shannessy, P., Smith, D., & Coatta, T. (2016). React:
    Facebook’s Functional Turn on Writing JavaScript. Communications of the ACM,
    59(12), 56–62. https://doi.org/10.1145/2980991

The blog "Why did we build react?" by Pete Hunt [#f3]_ describes some of the
defining and ground breaking features of React. The primary advantages include
less vulnerabilities to cross-site scripting, more flexibility and abstraction,
and the ease of maintenance. Updating React pages also is fast due to the
updates only changing the differences in renders much like Git.

.. [#f3] Hunt, P. (2013, June 05). Why did we build react?. Retrieved February
    11, 2021, from https://reactjs.org/blog/2013/06/05/why-react.html

This video lecture by Kent Dodds at UtahJS [#f4]_ discusses the primary
features of React and goes through the implementation process for React on a
web page. I gained knowledge of how Babel and JSX tie into writing reactive UIs
in an efficient and easy to understand manner. Dodds also discusses the
importance of abstractions in React and understanding those abstractions to
write effective and efficient code.

.. [#f4] Dodds, K. C. (2018, September 18). The introduction to React you've
    been missing. Lecture presented at 2018 UtahJS Conference. Retrieved
    February 10, 2021, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SAIdyBFHfVU

This article, "JSX in REACT," by Yogesh Chavan [#f5]_ covers the interaction of
JavaScript Extension Syntax (JSX) and React. The article explains how JSX
simplifies the setup of a web page as well as makes the site more readable for
programmers. The use of a JSX compiler and transcriber such as Babel. Babel
allows Rect elements to be written in JSX and converted to React.createElement
calls.

.. [#f5] Chavan, Y. (2021, February 01). JSX in REACT – explained with examples.
    Retrieved February 11, 2021, from
    https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/jsx-in-react-introduction/